all right guys hello hello everybody
welcome to this live stream traditional
Tuesday live stream it's 12 p.m. in
California and I don't know what time is
it in your country but I guess it's
evening in Europe and what midday in
America okay cool
yes welcome welcome this livestream is
about working on your English
pronunciation on my internet
renunciation yeah hey everyone let me
know what country you're watching from
or just discussing this with Joe who is
going to join me on this webinar we're
discussing the countries where students
are from okay yeah so yeah let me know
which country you from czech republic
russia hello
yeah we're studying starting starting
Cordes tun what wow Kazakhstan katara
India Bangladesh Japan Denmark UK Syria
februa Moldova Morocco Venezuela Mexico
you're great yeah we're talking like
we're gonna get give some specific
examples but yo is so many countries
Brazil Salvador oven as well wow wow I'm
flattered this is so cool people from
all over that is great amazing wife so
you have 214 people watching right now
this is pretty cool ok yeah so the way
we're going to structure this is Joe is
gonna go through various sounds that are
very particular for the English language
and we're going to talk about
pronouncing them and then he's gonna
give me some tasks and I will try to to
do them try to read different words and
he's gonna correct me and it's all gonna
be life and Joe is one of our English
teachers now he's listed on language
trip and you would be able to book
classes with him so I'm really really
excited he also taught and a couple of
our partner schools he's from Boston
okay cool I think everyone is here
if you have any questions throughout the
webinar we're gonna be able to stop like
every I don't know maybe 15 minutes and
answer your questions but police
questions have to be related to the
English language right yeah how do ya I
will answer the first questions and the
first question and then won't gonna go
how did improve my pronunciation if I
live in the country where people do not
speak English this is a really common
problem guys and I've been there I've
spent 25 years of my life in Russia and
a couple of years ago I moved to the
state and well the the best experience
for me was of course traveling I managed
to travel once a year to an
english-speaking country and go to a
local language school and talk to native
speakers this is actually the best and I
guess the only way to practice your
English in the environment but if you
don't have this opportunity to travel
something like a webinar is great
because you're listening to native
speakers not me with Joe you're
listening to other people you know
watching YouTube if you haven't
subscribed to my Instagram by the way
today I released a post about my
favorite YouTube vloggers I'm gonna show
you the post and if you follow me on
Instagram this is the photo and if you
go Boop's and if you go below this photo
okay you're gonna manage if you're gonna
go below this photo you're gonna see the
list of American youtubers who I love
and who have great content and you can
just learn their pronunciation you can
listen how they talk so yeah make sure
you subscribe to every single youtuber
out there is producing content that you
like and try to listen to them and try
to watch them all the time okay now I'm
going to connect Joe okay now you see
hey thank you so much for joining us
today from Boston my pleasure
yay so please tell a little about
yourself
and what we're going to do today so I've
been teaching English since 2015 and I
worked at FLS International and King's
Boston and when I was a teacher at Kings
my afternoon class every day was
pronounciation so I taught pronunciation
five days a week for at least one hour
for about eight months so a big part of
my experience was pronunciation teaching
but I've done everything business
English general English writing essay
composition all those things but the
pronunciation I have a lot of experience
with nice I'm really excited because
pronunciation is one of the toughest
things in in the language especially
when you're in your home country because
your teacher is gonna speak with the
same X and suv's from the same country
and this is what happened in my school
for example everybody spoke with the
Russian accent and I struggled to lure
an accent because every day you're
surrounded by your axis so there's no
way to learn and connecting with native
speakers like Jose the best thing to
learn the exits yeah we're really
excited I'm really excited me too cool
okay let's start in the class okay so
some of the most like you said when you
learn from someone who also has an
accent you're going to copy the way that
they speak and then it's hard to break
that habit so the first thing to think
about with pronunciation is that it's
like a muscle it's not like you can just
learn logically what your tongue needs
to do you have to practice it over and
over again so it's like going to the gym
and working out muscles doing it wrong
for so long get your tongue used to that
and it continues to do it that way so
what you need to do is break the habit
and then get yourself to practice doing
it in a way that might feel unnatural to
you because it's a sound that doesn't
exist in your language but you have to
force yourself to get through that phase
until you can get to a part where it
feels natural to speak that way yeah I
can I can relate totally it can relate
to this because when I tried to mimic
American accent because when I came to
the United States for the first time I
was speaking with a British accent and I
keep telling about the situation in
Starbucks where I tried to order hot
coffee and they gave me cold because
America say hot and to me hot sounded
really stupid because in England you
would say that a lot of British acts
and so the first times when I started
pronouncing hot I felt like a clown
weird was going on but then you just
when you keep practicing yes it's a
muscle when you keep pronouncing the
words in the right way just get used to
it so yeah sorry I will be interrupting
sometimes examples coming okay cool so
yeah that's a big thing Starbucks
the Starbucks line when you have to give
your name and then that's that's a good
way to test your pronunciation because
then when you get the cup it says like
something that's totally in the past he
said his name which was like iPod and he
got back the cup that said iPad and it
was a big joke in our class we were
always laughing about that because
everyone who couldn't pronounce his name
just went to the next closest thing
which was iPad so it was a problem for
him but it's funny for everyone else
yeah so yeah some of the biggest
problems that I hear with students is
the IDI ending of regular past tense
verbs so like it's spelled with an E D
so everyone when they read it from the
paper they just automatically say like
watch it or smoke it something like that
when really there's very few words that
have that extra syllable ending so
that's that's one of the big things and
there's actually rules for this there
are three rules for deciding how to
pronounce the IDI ending of a verb so
that's one thing that you can learn
logically and then use that rule to
decide how to pronounce things in the
future so specifically the rules are if
it's if the other word if the verb ends
with D sound or a T sound then you add
that extra syllable so it would be like
wasted wanted added needed those are the
only ones that have an extra syllable
the other two fall into two categories
one where the II D sounds like a D sound
and one where the II D sounds like a T
sound so for words like watch
the past tense would be a tea sound like
watched and words like learn the IDI
would sound like learned so that's one
thing that you need to practice with
your tongue but also you can learn the
rule so that you'll know what it should
sound like even without anybody there to
tell you once you have this rule in mind
you can use it to pronounce new words is
their rule for t / D in the end like
learned but watch - yeah so it would be
it would be pronounced like a D if the
sound right before the end the last
sound of the word has watched if it has
a like a you have to vibrate your vocal
cords we call this a voiced sound
so it's voiced and unvoiced oh so like
be to pronounce something that has a B
sound you have to vibrate your vocal
cords so it sounds like this buh buh buh
so that's a B sound so something that
you probably can sing I can't think of a
good example of a verb that ends with B
but the other one this it's like the
same sound but there's no action in your
vocal chords so it's P so it's just a
puff of air you open your lips and air
comes out so that's an buh buh that's
the difference between a voiced sound
and an unvoiced sound so if it's
unvoiced like P then it will be stopped
stopped
so it's an unvoiced P and an unvoiced T
together okay is that no no I'm getting
it I'm still trying to relate this to
saying you've just learned mmm you can
still like sing it but like if you say
bucht you cannot sing it so we can sing
it it's d when you cannot see so yeah
I'm just trying to think of different
so because rules are tough to memorize
but something like relating to whatever
is happening here is easier and so later
when you do this you can know
oh my god I can sing this sounds I can
so I should tell Dee I should say the D
sound mhm yes singing is huge for
pronunciation practice
oh yeah their websites where you can
listen and you have to fill in the words
and then once the song is in your head
you can sing it and your it's sort of
like you're doing an impression of the
original singer so the other thing you
can do to practice listen to like
dialogue in movies and TV shows and try
to mimic not just the words they say but
the way that they say them like there
are some really famous actors who have a
very unique voice and it's it's sort of
fun they were in one of the most famous
is Clint Eastwood mm-hmm in the u.s. you
know he's kind of old no yeah yeah
so he's famous for being like a tough
guy saying like you feel lucky things
like that so that's that's one person
who's fun to do an impression of yeah so
my experience also with singing with
pronunciation my some of my subscribers
know that I have been taking singing
classes here in San Francisco and my
t-shirt
he noticed straight away that I was
Russian because he said Russian saying
is that you do not open your mouth and
this really changes the way I sing he
says your mouth is always closed and
this is a problem that is an Eastern
European problem and he said you have to
look at Italians how they sing because
Italians saying with their mouths open
and it's easier for them to mimic the
American accent so he said like now open
your mouth and don't shut it at all just
saying ah and get used to your jaw being
really low so yeah when you sing in in
English try to yeah like even I don't
know listening to Britney Spears she
says words in different ways when she
sings because she opens her mouth so
wide see yeah this is uh this a great
practice yeah so most of the things that
you would use for singing practice also
apply to pronunciation so basically it's
like breaking those habits where you you
always speak with your mouth a little
bit more closed you have to like do
something that feels unnatural at first
to overcome that yeah and one of the
other things now this is now
for every language but a lot of Latin
based languages so like Spanish French
Portuguese and Italian they have this
problem with phantom vowels because for
them almost all the words in their
language begin and end with vowels but
in English that's not the case so like
Spain that the name of the country Spain
students from that country and many
others could say like espanha Vanya yeah
spot Espania something like that but in
the spelling in English there's no vowel
there so that's something you have to
work on getting yourself to stop doing
these phantom vowels so that's like
listening and repeating kind of thing
yeah I also notice in Italians because I
also study Italian so I communicate with
Italians a lot they also try to avoid
saying the consonant in the beginning of
the world so they were of the word so
they would say hotel instead of hotel
like they would just drop the first
letter yeah an H is silent in a lot of
languages and even in some English words
Oh enemy telling me I think it's Helen
yeah yeah so that's another thing is uh
not pronouncing English the same way
that you would pronounce your language
especially when it's like we share the
same word it's spelled the same but the
pronunciation is totally different so
that's the thing you have to sort of
break your old habits so you see a word
that's spelled like something you
recognize and you say Oh that'll be easy
but then when you pronounce it a native
speaker is like what what I don't
understand something like that yeah and
so one of the other things is the th
sound oh yeah like we just totally just
don't have yeah the same
[Laughter]
even if you get used to it a little bit
there's another curveball that English
throws at you that there's two different
th sounds so like I said before with the
voiced and unvoiced thing so there's
there's one that's just just air coming
out and the other is you with some
vibration of your vocal cords so there's
two different ones and we sort of have
to teach people which words go this way
in which words
our voice then which are unvoiced mm-hmm
and I remembered our school back in
Russia when they told us we just had to
sit for like five minutes and say sir
that's the Soviet notice the difference
here again the sound you can sing it
it's the sound you're stuck you cannot
sing it so that's for me again that's
the difference yeah so that kind of
memorization I know like a lot of people
think it's an old-fashioned way of
teaching but it's actually really useful
for pronunciation because like I said
before it's a muscle memory thing so you
really have to just do the action over
and over again and so that's one of the
reasons that pronunciation class is
really fun actually so when it's a group
class you have maybe 10 people who are
like adults in their 20s who are very
serious about studying but for about 45
minutes in class everyone is just making
strange noises and practicing tongue
movements and so it's a really funny
class it puts everyone kind of in a more
relaxed setting but then we try to get
that muscle memory practice in so it
seems fun like we're all just making
noises but actually we're doing it over
and over again and the teachers telling
you like it sounds better or it doesn't
sound better what you need to do with
your tongue to change the sound that's
coming up yeah and the best Regan why we
need to think about all of the rules
because this is the only way you can
later notice your mistakes because the
only way you can learn that it's not
just by sitting in class every day class
is for you to realize what things you
have to notice but then you go in and
practice and this is when you have to
mark every time you make it make a
mistake and mark it in your head like oh
I said that wrong and there's no need to
correct yourself straight away but then
the next time you're saying the same
thing you're like oh last time I made a
mistake this time I'm gonna say it
correctly yeah so a lot of pronunciation
mmm that they say like the teacher can
open the door but you must walk through
it so there's a lot of things that we
could teach you but you still need to
practice a lot so it's like playing a
sport or playing music like that it
takes a lot of practice on your own yeah
shelter yes you don't have a partner you
know I talk to myself all the time I
imagine that I have somebody I'm
explaining something about out of my
life my business and I just talk to
imaginary people I asked my mom once I
was like do you think it's okay that I
talk to myself all the time
she said if you're talking to yourself
it's fine but if you're talking to an
imaginary person we have to see a doctor
like I'm talking to many people all the
time but I think this is the best
practice um or imagine that you are a
part of your favorite TV show I don't
know I imagined that I miscarriage and
I'm talking to another character and and
I was trying to mimic their accent as
well this is something really useful
again if you don't have a partner
imagine this partner and start talking
when no one is home when you're alone
because practice practice and practice
practice makes perfect and it's really
important when you're practicing your
accent mm-hmm yeah so that's definitely
a good way but if you feel like that's
too strange there are some other ways
also something close to a real person
without actually knowing someone who's a
native speaker one thing is that there
are certain companies that everyone uses
in in different countries like Amazon
and things like that and so if you had a
problem with this company you would call
your countries like special customer
service number and you would speak in
your language so that it would be easier
for you but you can try to start calling
call centers like that in English and
that's one big way to test your
pronunciation because these people
they're not teachers or anything like
that they're going to just say I don't
understand you I'm sorry
and like end the conversation so it's
kind of trial by fire it's tough I know
students at schools that I've worked at
in the past would like be on the phone
with customer service and just give up
and come to me and say like can you tell
this person what I need yeah so it can
be really frustrating but if you've
heard a pretty high level but
pronunciation is one of the last things
you need to work on that's one way you
can get a real person on the other end
mm-hmm yeah that's a good one by the way
yeah calling Coulson
never done that for practice okay try
calling comcast comcast is the internet
provider here and the last time I wasn't
on the phone with them it took me like
one hour to figure out the problem even
without having problems with
understanding so Comcast comm customer
service yeah Comcast is really
frustrating even for native speakers so
it might be okay to do it for practice
but I don't want to have to do that
myself
yeah so another one is that there are
websites where you can get like a
language exchange partner so they want
to learn your language and you want to
learn theirs so you just spend like two
hours talking one hour in your language
and then one hour in theirs so that you
both get a little bit of practice so you
can learn grammar that way too but if
you're at a high level in grammar you
can just start focusing on pronunciation
mm-hmm yeah I feel these services are
like if you're in the middle you will
talk to guys who would not really
correct you because they know teachers
so I would say if you're like
intermediate I would still talk to a
teacher so like book a skype class but
if you're yes if you're higher level
then you know finding an exchange
partner might work but again for me
never worked because our times were
always different so like I found
somebody and he says I cannot share
right now I can chat in like two hours
and I'm no longer interested in two
hours so yeah I don't know it depends
depends on what kind of person you are
yeah and the other thing about getting
an actual teachers that they're like
committing themselves to being available
at whatever hours are good for you so
like for me exempt I wake up at like
5:30 every day to teach lessons in Asia
sometimes so a regular person is like I
just want to work practice at a time
that's convenient for me after work but
a teacher will have more availability
for you considering the timezone
difference yeah I'm just I'm just
looking through the comments here there
is a really cool question coming from my
son he's asking me to us to pronounce
words like Bournville I'm gonna do I'm
gonna text them to you in telegram right
now so you can see them
yeah we're gonna read them straight away
Annabel I don't know if I'm pronouncing
them right because I don't really use
those words in in real life just a
moment it's loading so the words are
born Braille Annabel chili Chronicle I
drove the forwards
that's pretty good so far yeah okay so
born with chili chili is chili right so
if if we followed the rules the country
would read a child but we do not follow
the rules for chili would just say chili
Oh actually if you strictly followed the
Spanish pronunciation of of the country
name it would be like chili or chili
mm-hmm
so that would be their authentic
pronunciation but as someone in the
United States if you speak a whole
sentence with your natural accent and
then you change to chili and you say it
with a the real accent it sounds a
little strange so what Americans say is
chili chili yay yeah okay and another
word for me I just chatted to my friends
and she said there's 100% chance you're
gonna pronounce this word wrong and this
is for the state Arkansas right because
it's spelled like Arkansas I was asked
on the end but you're gonna say Arkansas
is that correct yeah it's very strange
so a lot of the states in the u.s. come
from Native American language so I mean
are settlers my ancestors we didn't know
how to pronounce it either but we just
took it and something that was in a
different language and then just
pronounced it with English pronunciation
even though it was wrong so there's
actually another state with a very
similar name Kansas right so it's
exactly the same except there's an AR in
the front but the whole pronunciation is
different yeah so that's that's a weird
sort of situation like long ago in the
past pronunciation developed in strange
ways sort of accidentally people were
miss speaking and no one corrected them
and they just continued for years and
years so yeah Arkansas and Kansas I'm
totally different yeah yeah just just to
remember that yeah it's the only the
only way yeah basically because
there's no rule for us States because
they're so random yeah I would and for
other countries like when I came to the
UK first I was in a town called mal bruh
but they would pronounce mulberry just
for the reason I don't know there was no
reason because they British and there
was the city called ready and if you
read it according to rules it's just
like reading just like the word to read
in the continuous form but they would
pronounce it reading and there is no
rule you just have to know and it's so
weird
yeah so I'm here in Boston where it was
one of the first colonies so we have all
these British names we have half Native
American names and strange British names
so everything is really hard to
pronounce yeah we have a reading - oh
yeah we have a ton of British names like
that oh okay wow that's interesting cool
okay do you want me to to talk about
Bournville Annabelle and Chronicle - uh
yeah if if there is anything
particularly about those words then yes
yeah so Bournville that Vil VIH
that comes from like an old word that
meant sort of like village and that's
the end of a place name like a city or
town could have that name and it's
always just Ville people from the south
of the u.s. might say bull-like
Bournville what the normal common
pronunciation across the US would be
just Bournville bill yeah I think
Russians would say okay yeah so that's
another case with a silent letter that
Ian mm-hmm
then Annabelle I think that was a horror
movie that just came out yeah that one
that's just a name that's a proper noun
so it doesn't follow the other
pronunciation rules you're normally
Belle would be be e ll but this one
having an e at the end it's just silent
because it's a name and what about oh
yeah let's finish that one it's gonna
have another way a very interesting word
I yeah and so the last one was Chronicle
mhm and this one is totally different
it's like the same kind of ending as
comfortable or vegetable so it's it's
like a ble or icle or like icicle
popsicle
it has an e on the end but that e only
tells you that the it changes the
pronunciation of the words the letters
before that so it doesn't actually have
any value in its own it's like the
difference between ma n which would be
man right man
but if I added so it's ma n e now it's
mean like a lion's mane so sometimes he
comes at the end of a word just to
change the pronunciation of previous
letters it doesn't have any value okay
yeah and the last ones would be
literally people ask to pronounce ed all
the time literally is that correct it
sounds a little bit British but it's
it's correct yeah what is the American
Way literally literally okay yeah that's
the thing right I I keep saying Salman
instead of someone okay Alicia come
again with uh police really Oh literally
literally is that when you say it it's
literally you have three syllables Lindo
yeah when I say it it's four literally
yeah there is another yeah literally
okay we're learning American here okay
yeah and some people ask what is the
whole point of learning the American
accent I would say there are different
cases there are cases when you don't
need to lose your native accent just
because you want to be different in my
case I have to do a lot of fundraising
for a company well I had to do a lot of
fundraising couple of years ago and what
I've noticed is that I'm an
international founder in the Silicon
Valley and there is not a lot of trust
for my company because I come from a
different country and people do not know
me I don't have American education blah
blah blah and when I start speaking with
a weird accent there is even less trust
and I have to ask and I'm asking people
for like hundreds and thousands of
dollars and why should they give this
money to me if I feel really distant
they don't really get what I'm saying
that's why I think for me like and for
all of the founders out here in the
Silicon Valley I feel that this is a
huge problem because you need to
establish this trust and you need to
show local investors that you are local
as well that you're the same culture
that you're not gonna run away with
their money that you're gonna grow a
company this is number one thing for me
so why I started learning American
accent second thing I know many people
want to work in entertainment industry
and there are so many people who call me
and say hey I want to be an actor the
only way you can be a successful actor
in the States is to have the American
accent because otherwise if you come
with your local accent all of the roles
that you're gonna get are gonna will be
limited to you know playing immigrant
from your country this is thing number
two and thing number three again just
being I feel that it's important to be
to feel like a local when you live in
the country and when you have a
different accent I don't know well
America is very international many
people have different accents but when
the accent is so strong when it makes
when it's when it creates difficulties
when you talk to other people that might
be a little you know weird but let me
know in the comments why would you learn
an accent or why you wouldn't learn an
accent that is also interesting well do
you have anything dad Joe yeah it's kind
of unfortunate that people judge you
negatively if they hear an accent but um
it it is true like in the industry that
I work in it's really normal for people
to have many different accents but in
other industries they're just not used
to that so they would be comparing you
with someone that speaks exactly the way
they do and it's perfectly clear what
they're saying all the time with someone
who they even if they only had a little
bit of trouble understanding you that's
still sort of like a negative mark on
your application so yeah it's
unfortunate but it is the reality of the
yeah yeah it's about trust it's about
feeling that you are similar you're from
the same background even if you're not
but again yeah I you should meet our
other teacher Vania he's from Russia and
he came to the states with an amazing
accent and he
no actually he's teaching one of the
language schools in LA and you can never
tell he's from Russia but yeah this is
the kind of commitment you can have
foreign accent that's okay cool let's
continue also one last thing I wanted to
mention about ways to practice is that
this is a new thing that people couldn't
do maybe five years ago but it's like
something that I thought of to tell
students that they could do at home like
Siri or voice-to-text whatever kind of
smart phone you have or you can use your
computer
alexa yeah yeah oh yeah so Alexa and
Google home those are two other big ones
now yeah so even for native speakers we
have to try our best to speak clearly to
make sure that I'm sure you've seen
people all over the place like getting
angry at Siri because they're saying it
over and over again but she's not
getting it when those are native
speakers so it's like the highest
standard of pronunciations you have to
get it totally perfect so that's one way
to check your own pronunciation without
being around someone who can help you
yeah yeah I just I just said Alexa and
Alexis in the kitchen and she's like
that's a funny oh yeah
so I even wanted to make a video how to
talk to Alexa if you have an accent in
English this is this is an amazing way
to practice all right do we have
anything left or should we go to the
French as part we're either the last tip
that I would give for self-practice was
just I'm not sure if you've heard of
well yeah you probably have the
international phonetic alphabet or like
the IPA oh yeah like the transcripts for
the words is that way yes oh yeah so
like the English alphabet it has 26
letters but when you see those letters
in a word it doesn't necessarily tell
you what sound that should make I know
in other languages if you see one letter
you just know exactly what sound that
should be but with English because it's
been through so many changes over the
centuries
it's the letters that you see in the
word don't necessarily represent the
sounds that your mouth should make so
the International phonetic alphabet is
letters that only apply to one sound so
thanks and bull you know exactly what
sound to make and so you can learn this
you can memorize this and then when you
look in the dictionary next to every
word will be an entry that tells you
exactly how to pronounce it using the
IPA so you don't need a coach you you
already have an idea of what it should
sound like and then you can try
something like Siri to see if you're
actually hitting that mark yeah and I
also feel that Google Translate does a
great job because if you type in the
word in Google you can press the audio
button and they're gonna pronounce it
for you so you can compare yourself as
well yeah that's really helpful too but
if you were stuck with just a paper
dictionary then you may have to use that
but when I teach my own classes I don't
expect the students to memorize this
whole new alphabet which actually has
more symbols or maybe just a few more
symbols in the English alphabet
instead I just type things out in a way
that's like intuitive it's just using
basic sounds that you already know how
to pronounce I bring a bigger words into
smaller where did your prints
yeah that's clever mm-hmm cool yep so
that's about it for my tips for
self-practice yeah we're gonna so we're
gonna yeah people are asking who is who
is Alexa Alexis yeah digital home
assistant it's black thing I normally
use her for timers like when I cook
something as her to countdown like half
an hour you can also order things from
Amazon but I don't really use that
function we use it for timer okay
so now we're gonna go to the practical
part Joe's gonna give me words that I'm
gonna read out loud for you and he's
gonna correct me meanwhile also if you
have any other words that come up to
come to your mind and you have concerns
about pronouncing them write them down
in comments in the chat and we're gonna
get back to them once I finish that
practical part okay you ready yes I'm
just gonna share my screen right now
perfect
so these are some words that some of
them are difficult for Russian speakers
and then others are just difficult for
everyone so what do you try to pronounce
these we'll see if we can get you to to
make a mistake okay
yeah the first I know like two sounds
what and it's wavy right yeah okay so
you're good baby
yep yeah fake it's good yes
Bieber is when you have cold you are
nice
what is mace mace well two things one
it's a medieval weapon from like the
time when knights and kings rode horses
and went into battle so it's an old
weapon it's like a ball with spikes and
then the more modern definition is it's
like a common weapon that many people
have it's like pepper spray you spray it
in someone's eyes if they try to attack
me
okay okay the next one is maize um
thousands thousands in these thesis
mm-hmm thesis or thesis
okay pieces okay so you said it
perfectly the first time okay
thesis so what I'm talking about before
with the two types of th sounds these
that's voiced so it's these yeah you can
sing it these yeah that's true and then
the other one is unvoiced so it's just
air you put your tongue in the right
position and then you just blow air
through your teeth so it's a thesis this
is this thesis that's good
and then at the other side it goes all
the way here thesis and the other thing
about these two words is that they have
both examples of the ways you can
pronounce s so in these these it's like
a Z sound that's something that you
can't tell from looking at spelling so
that's where you need pronunciation
practice to tell you which s is our Z
and which s is our like
so a thesis and these it's the two
different essays and the two different
th sounds got it okay so since those
were too easy for you I'm gonna move on
to something a little more difficult
okay so for that WV when I was a child
we did this as like a funny sort of game
in school but in the Asian class this is
a very important thing so it's easy to
pronounce one word correctly he
pronounced the whole thing and then if
you can we speed it up can you pronounce
it very quickly okay you guys should
also try it
everyone watch Hank try it with me world
wide vowels
well Weaver's with wavy vows okay so
it's it was slow and counselor I know I
know you can get it as quickly as I'm
about to say it and I'll probably make a
mistake now but let me just try
worldwide vowels while Weaver's with
wavy vows oh my god that was perfect
okay
worldwide vows while Weaver's them with
wavy about extra stones to that yeah
yeah it's just one mistake which is
pretty good
what was the mistake the extra Sun yeah
there was just one extra it was like we
virgins yes we move with like that yeah
yeah you know I have this yeah when I
try to record my videos in English
sometimes they just start talking too
quickly and yeah those tongue twisters
is so useful because yeah okay the next
one free fleas for all of the loyal
royalty-free please but the little
royalty yeah that's easier yeah so the
first one was a problem that native
Russian speakers might have and this one
is a problem that students from Asia
tend to have especially Japan and Korea
and sometimes China to the L and the are
it's for in their language it's just one
sound but in English it's huge sounds
that we have to keep very separate
mm-hmm yeah I know is bad with Asian
students okay
the next one is sheep sheep shape shapes
in cheat sheets yeah that's that's
really good so this one is a problem
that Spanish speakers tend to have
sometimes maybe Italian because they say
it right
yeah the instead of like they would say
sheep yeah instead of sheets that yeah
yeah so one thing I like to do in
pronunciation class we take words like
this these are called minimal pairs like
cheap and cheap there are two words that
almost sound exactly the same but only
one sound is different so we use those
to practice so that you say one or the
other and the other person has to tell
you did you say cheap or sheep so if you
know the person can't tell the
difference then you're not saying it
correctly another thing we do we take
like ten of those words that are all
very similar and we put it on like a
telephone dial pad so that in order to
give someone a phone number you'd have
to say like cheap chip shape shaved
sheep shap and you have to say them all
differently otherwise people think it's
all the same number yeah that's what
each sound represents a number and if
you don't say it right they get the
wrong number yeah you should either do
it in the classes somebody books a class
with you and you should do that that is
a cool task yeah it's really fun too
because it's usually very difficult in
the beginning to everyone just making
noises and laughing oh this one this one
I know it actually sounds famous by the
seashore yeah we had to do that for the
English language contest back when I was
like 15 she sells seashells on the by
the seashore
yeah so this one if you've gotten some
practice it can be pretty easy but for
some people the SH and the s to keep
those separate is a little bit difficult
so this is a classic tongue twister many
people have probably seen this one
already yeah and W it's another problem
for some from speakers just some people
say ooh like an O sound instead of a W
so for the perfect English W your mouth
has to sort of open and close like wha
what what mm-hmm
what how much wood would a woodchuck
chuck if a woodchuck could chuck wood
Oh
how much wood would a woodchuck chuck if
a woodchuck could chuck wood oh my god
okay so this one it's just really hard
to say consonants that close together
and then some people have a problem with
wood so there's a question and an answer
so it goes how much wood would a
woodchuck chuck if a woodchuck could
chuck wood a woodchuck would chuck as
much wood as a woodchuck could it for
which I could chuck wood this is the
last one and this is a way to practice
what we call a reduction where the space
between a the ending of one word and the
beginning of a new one if it has a sort
of soft sound like a CH then we just
kind of drop the H so in the very end of
this one this these last two words
should rhyme with the other part so it's
fuzzy-wuzzy and this should also sound
like was he Oh was he
yeah so oh yeah and this is a common
rule right when no you say was e you
don't pronounce key you don't pronounce
H okay fuzzy wuzzy was a bear fuzzy
wuzzy had no hair fuzzy was he wasn't
very fuzzy wuzzy yeah okay okay so using
this one we get we introduce people to
the reduction which is dropping certain
sounds to make it more fluent to sound
more like a native speaker okay and like
your accent is pretty good so I think
you could probably save this just like a
native speaker be familiar with
each coats accents like New York and
Boston no I can't I cannot tell that
well I might tell that this so different
from California but I would be able to
tell where the person is wrong what is
the difference between New York and
Boston it's not very different it's
really small difference they say that
people speak more quickly here but if
you're obviously if you're an English
teacher you learn to slow that down one
thing
Boston sounds Boston in New York sound
kind of British in some ways so yeah was
it like yeah so they if something ends
with er they just say uh and most things
with our sense yeah water
why do you say water Oh water I mean
wait I really say it is water okay
well let's see Boston say water okay
yeah this is the the funniest word
because when it came to the cave this
year with kind of American accent this
water was so so funny to me it sounded
so weird because in California we save
water so that's a big difference in
British and American accent is that that
tea in the middle of many words they
pronounce it like a tea but we don't we
pronounce it like a D D right or like
instead of butter we say butter mm-hmm
butter but of course if a student
pronounces it this way I'm not going to
point out that point that out as an
issue because of course it's your choice
if you want to have an American accent
or a British accent
depending on where you're going to work
or study that's sort of your choice but
if you wanted to change that I could
work with that
mm-hmm of course it's not wrong it's
just different yeah I also feel that
like when you take TOEFL exam for
example which is an American exam there
is no rule that you have to show some
particular acts and you just have to be
consistent but at the same time I know
that TOEFL is organized by an American
organization and the people who are
checking this exam who are listening to
whatever you saying you're speaking
right they're probably American and if
you have an American accent will be
easier for them to understand so there
is
better chance again scoring more in this
part that's why I started like really
started training my American accent for
the TOEFL exam because any is different
on the other hand IELTS as a British
British exam so if you're taking Isles
then British accent would be a better
fit so if you're in the middle if you
still have like your own local accent
local to your country and your choosing
then you need to decide what country
you're gonna go to because I feel that
well in Europe and European countries
people still speak with British accent
they try to learn British accent but
here in America Canada it's so it's all
Americans South America is probably more
American than than British right yeah
yeah definitely
okay cool what's what's next there those
questions
oh do you want to do you want to get a
cup of coffee yeah so this is a
reduction practice so can you say that
one more time in the way you think a
native speaker would sit do you want to
get a cup of coffee yeah so that's
pretty good we wanted to say it was this
East Coast accent that I was talking
about before it would be like this do
you wanna get a cuppa cuppa do you want
to get a cup a cup cup of coffee can you
say it do you want to get a cup of
coffee
Danika another tongue twister I was
getting ducks with me mm-hmm
so instead of do we just drop the o and
merge it with the Y so it's Jia Jia Jia
mm-hmm what I know that you've probably
you see this all the time like want to
have two got two it happens becomes
coulda woulda shoulda wanna gotta get it
so all of those we American native
speakers will do that all the time so
one part of pronunciation practice is
getting yourself to make the right
sounds and know what native speakers
will say so that when you hear it you
recognize it as not some new word that
sounds like Juwanna but do you want to
yeah and then you have to do it
backwards sort of yeah yeah because when
you say do you want to get a cup of
coffee that
might sound a little too formal maybe
right when you're talking to friends you
want to be more relaxed but when you're
delivering a TEDx speech and then you
wouldn't could track that yes that's
true
cool yeah I wanted to see a couple
questions uh if if there are any French
is the best language okay I don't speak
French turkey man sounds like sheep it's
a little it's a little different sound
Oh almonds oh yeah
so I made this video on my Russian
channel because I felt well my I have my
aunt here in San Francisco she moved
here 20 years ago she barely speaks
Russian Russian and we picked up some
words that I'm pronouncing wrong still
in American and almond was one of the
words because I can I learned the
British version of it can you pronounce
almond almond almond okay by the way if
you could you could switch on your
camera instead of the style if we're if
we're done with that one
oh it's more okay yeah so almond right
yeah it sounds right to me what about
what about this salmon so my aunt she's
from Maryland
so she says salmon some people in
California say Salman so I'm stuck what
I've never known American native
speakers to pronounce it's Salman some
it's people who've never said it out
loud before and they just see it spelled
they think that that L needs to be
pronounced and I know that some people
British British people Browns in this
it's Solomon Solomon hmm it's possible
those people are British
but first American native speakers it's
salmon so it's air right salmon yeah in
California they say saw not AB but ah
salmon they still do not pronounce the L
but they say summon but I learned salmon
from Elena she's as I said from Maryland
so I sound a little worried in
California there is so many differences
in the language that you just
- you know you just have to immerse
yourself in the language in order to
pick them because when you practice for
like an hour a day you just miss those
small things well Wow English is so
exciting I feel I get so excited about
the amount of axes there are I was so
excited about like Great Britain is such
a small country and they have I don't
know what like 50 accents and it was not
really able to get what a person from
the north of England says in America I
feel it's a little easier maybe because
I've just traveled from California to
like New York I've never been to the
States in the middle of America but I
feel that if I travel that's gonna be a
lot of pressure on many years because of
all of the differences that they had
there mm-hmm yeah there are some big
differences but fortunately the middle
of the country is easier than New York
or Boston oh really okay
they make weird pronunciation things
that are very different but they speak
more slowly so that's one thing that's
easier and of course students don't need
to master many different regional
accents we just in pronunciation class
we just want to get you to like a base
level so that you can be understood by
people from any region of of it like the
english-speaking world mm-hmm
okay cool yeah I'm still looking for
through your questions guys if you have
any more questions men men versus men
some men is plural
man is single oh so man and men yeah
yeah so that's a good one so man is like
an ah sound actually it's like Apple
Apple cat at man that's all those are
the same man but then men is a this we
call this a short e sound so instead of
like the e long e sound it's just a
mm-hmm so men it's very short sound some
sounds you can continue doing forever
but f is a sound that you can only make
once with the back of your throat so
yeah because I feel like my vocal cords
when you say yeah they spread right is
that is that what's happening they're
like try
to pronounce a and you feel that
something is expanding in your throat
and you cannot really hold this position
and slice men it's fast but man you can
see the vocal cords are relaxed that's
what I feel I'm not as singing
professional but I feel that they're
relaxed and I can sing out loud man and
it can go go on and on and on and this
is so that's the difference between a
long vowel sound and a short vowel sound
so most of the vowels that you're
familiar with they have a long version
and a short version so that's like a and
a and E and E those are that's another
example so like hit that's it yeah you
can only do that for a short sound and
that is in the back that's right mm-hmm
and heat is something you can sing heat
yeah okay
okay there are some questions about
grammar I think we'll just pick the
questions regarding pronouncing words
okay will you say this broadcast
yes it's gonna stay on my channel you
will be able to watch a couple of times
if you need to watch it more do I pass
TOEFL exam if I speak British English of
course as I said just be consistent if
you're if you chose British language
accent for your exam then if you're
using like glory instead of truck
lorries the British word for truck then
keep using lorry throughout your exam
just be consistent and that's it how can
I understand English when the speaker is
talking in an accent it becomes
difficult to understand the words when
the speaker is talking fast how to
overcome that my answer would be it's
just a matter of practice like the more
you practice the more accent see here
the better you understand especially if
you come to jail language school for
example there would be so many access
like your teachers will have a great
American accent but your classmates are
going to come from different parts of
the world
and you will train your ear to
understand not only axons that come from
different parts of the world but then
you will be able to understand to tell
the difference between access within
America like American versus Canadian
accents so I think it's just it's just a
matter of practice
what would you say Joe yeah I'd have to
agree so it's practice it's like what we
spoke about before with training your
tongue to get used to new movements and
then repeat those movements you have to
train your ear to hear things more
accurately and also to associate a sound
that this native speaker is making maybe
you didn't recognize it right away
but associate it with the spelling of a
word that you are familiar with so that
in your mind those two are together
another way to do that without speaking
to anyone is watching videos with
subtitles so even if the person is
speaking with an accent you have the
written text at the bottom that tells
you what they're saying so even though
it might sound unfamiliar you can check
as you're watching to practice linking
those two things that the strange new
sound and the word that you're familiar
with practice thing yeah and also
something else that came to my mind if
you are not yet able to tell the
difference between access that's totally
fine because I wasn't able to tell the
difference between British and American
accent till I was like upper
intermediate level so when I first came
to the UK and my friends were like oh
did you hear those Americans they're so
loud and it was like I cannot tell any
difference but when I was in the UK for
the fourth time I was watching an
American movie and I didn't I had
struggle understanding what was said
because I was so used to the British
accent it only comes with a certain
level of English so I would say like
intermediate / upper intermediate is
when you start to notice those
differences and if you do not notice
them right now don't worry it's it's
gonna come just just wait a little yeah
definitely it's not something you need
in the first half of your English
learning career right yeah you need to
focus on grammar and things like that
and then later you can start to think
about accent exactly exactly yeah okay I
have one last cool question about
pronouncing
words from Shruti okay
call an ill call oh no no actually
that's so this is one of those words
that was like the British English where
it's very strange and it's
counterintuitive it's totally different
from what you expect it's Colonel Oh
colonel well that's what that's why they
say Colonel who is this guy KFC colonel
colonel service yeah Colonel Sanders oh
my god I didn't know that I have to ride
that down because I have to make a video
models okay Colin oh wow that is so
useful
Wow okay the next word from the same
comment I don't really know the meaning
uh is months is th mus it's it's really
hard to pronounce that's sort of like
jargon you don't mean by jargon yeah
like yeah so I'm not even familiar with
the meaning of that word but let me see
what I can find
so yeah I mean well I can read narrow
strip of land with see on either side so
it's a very specific thing so the
pronunciation is just isthmus associate
because that's one thing s and th when
they're right against each other it's
almost impossible even for native
speakers to pronounce that combination
of and together it's really difficult to
pronounce so the pronunciation of this
word is just isthmus or is okay is this
oh wow that's a really cool comment okay
squirrel I can do that
any moan any mom AAA and e/m oh and E
this is like sea anenome right it's like
a starfish anyone you spell that one
more time and it was her a and E em oh
and E yeah any money oh honey that is an
animal from the sea and the
pronunciation is anemone anemone
yeah so it's really it's really
difficult to pronounce it's one of those
words looks like vowel consonant vowel
consonant vowel consonant so there's a
lot of syllables with few letters and
it's difficult it's pretty
straightforward the e is an a sound and
then the other part is just money
anemone yeah yeah okay and there were a
couple more words quiet
I know oh this this word Worcestershire
right was booster yeah it's not a
name of a town yeah yeah yeah so here
Massachusetts we have another city
called
its instead of the shire part it's just
Worcester so when new people see this
they say Worchester that's you know from
reading it that's what you think
exaggerator's and years of people people
who didn't necessarily read English but
spoke English like you know throughout
history people just spoke so if your dad
had a bad accent or he mispronounced a
certain word he would teach you that
same mispronunciation and you taught it
to your kids and so until reading people
didn't know to know that it was wrong so
that's one of those that's the
pronunciation is so old that I don't
even know the origin but it is Worcester
and Worcestershire mm-hmm yeah okay Wow
thank you so much I think this was a
great class for me the main takeaway is
that it's not Colin oh it's Colonel it's
so cool then you keep learning like I've
been learning English for 22 years now
because I started when I was four my
parents taught me like dog and cat uh
Wow that's so cool okay guys um another
takeaway from you is that you can move a
class with Joe the link is below please
make sure to book it fast because the
slots are gonna fill up quickly and yes
I'm gonna leave this livestream on the
channel if you like it we are looking
for your likes because this is the only
way for us to see if you enjoyed this
last dream and whether we should do more
Joe thank you so much for joining us
today
that was a super useful class I
we do more in the future and yeah guys
thank you so much for being with us like
this video comment if you liked it and
we'll see you in on the next ice cream
which is next Tuesday 12 p.m. bye bye